And so I want you to continue with me going through and pulling Selex on the rest of your video footage.
OK, so I have this clip here where I'm kind of walking pan until up to the sun and I'm not super into
that shot.
So I'm going to go ahead and delete.
I'm going to repl delete here as well to empty, to get rid of the extra space here.
That's kind of a cool shot.
So I'm going to keep this one and I'm going to cut it right about there because we don't need to really
see this whole Stehr stone floor.
But I'm going to cut here.
OK.
And then I'm going to cut there, actually, so this is a good example of the other reasons to cut as
an editor.
So we have our shot here.
Everything looks great.
And right there.
So if I go back.
You can see that the camera.
Yeah, you see that the camera is trying to pull focus on my phone, so we don't want that.
We don't need that.
So that's a perfect, obvious reason, a less subtle reason, a very direct reason to cut.
So right before that happens, I'm going to go ahead and.
Got that?
And by the way, in premiere, this little squiggly line, I don't know, it's called let me put it
up on screen right now.
Wherever your cursor is hovering on screen, if your cursor is over here on the the viewer window,
if I hit the tab, it's going a squiggly line, whatever it's called.
It's going to expand if it's here.
It's going to expand.
OK, same thing for there.
So when you just want to see your program window, which is like where your final edit looks like,
you know, it's a perfect way to use it.
So we're on to our next shot here.
And this is great.
I'm going to cut out the beginning from the script forward here.
OK.
So the shot can either end right here and I can add a cut right there.
Or it can continue and then you kind of see more of the nature.
So that's a good example of two different options.
The shorter shot, so this shot starts at 33 seconds and then the main one ends at forty one.
So that's if I do simple math here, that's eight seconds.
That's already plenty long for one shot.
So even though this next shot has some nice nature in the background, I'm not going to use that.
OK.
But what I will do is that now we have these two selected and cut, trim down, and they're from the
same location.
I'm going to highlight both.
I'm going to right click and I'm going to label these.
Choose your favorite color.
This all this stuff kind of has a yellowish vibe to me, a yellowish orange vibe.
So some footage feels really bright.
I choose more of a yellowish tone for labeling.
Some footage is like nighttime.
I choose more of a bluish tone for labeling.
So this is like a lake, you know, that can be used to create that.
So as you're skimming across your time, learning, looking for the shots, you want to use, boom.
The color is key.
Trust me.
So moving forward now, we have this waterfall here, and I believe there's three different shots of
this.
So let's let this play through.
We have shot one.
This is shot number two.
And this is the third shot.
OK, cool.
So there's a few different practical ways to choose which shot to use if you have three or four options,
whatever it is.
We have this one that's very cool kind of povi of a person in nature.
It gives it a little bit more context when we just have waterfall or something that we're shooting.
Sometimes it's hard to feel scale.
Sometimes it's hard to feel how like awe inspiring a location can be with what we're shooting without
some type of reference, without having a person in it or something else in it that gives the brain
something to be like, OK, --, that's a really cool place.
That is one reason to go with to choose your shot.
Another reason is like what's going on in your shot?
We have the same waterfall here at different angles and at different times of day.
So here, waterfalls in the distance, it's not super impactful.
We see the stream.
I know this is kind of like funny to be talking about waterfalls and streams, but it goes across all
editing decisions and choices, choices regardless of the footage you're using.
So waterfalls in the background, it's kind of cool.
And waterfall is a little bit more zoomed in here.
So we have more of a close up shot.
We have a wide shot, and then we have kind of this povi shot.
Right.
We also see that as getting back to what I was originally saying, different times of day, different
lighting and different shot types.
Now, this time of day with this lighting obviously stands out so much more.
The gold and stuff that's going on like where I was when I was shooting, this is so much more interesting,
impactful, tells more of a story and gives more information to the viewer than these other two shots.
So, boom, all those different questions you're asking yourself are going to be pointing you towards
which shot to go with when you're sitting here with all of this raw footage.
Right.
So let's delete one of these.
I'm definitely not going to use the second one.
I really like this one.
I'm sure this is going to be the go to.
I'm going to move this in front of the other one and I'm going to color code these let's just say Teale.
OK, now we have this empty space and I'm going to remove by doing a triple delete.
We have a new location.
So I would say that we can kind of trim off some of the excess stuff here.
Kind of step in, which is cool.
OK.
And this is another scenario when you can ask yourself, is the whole cliff really needed?
This clip is starting at 54 seconds and ending at one six math.
That's 12 seconds.
OK, we're probably not going to use 12 seconds of this clip.
So here's another opportunity with footage that you're editing to have the long form, OK?
I might use that whole thing or just simply trim out where the shot is likely to end.
To me, we're tilting up, seeing the water, seeing the view, and we can cut there versus starting
kind of a brand new shot where now you're looking at a different scenery, even though it's the same
shot, you're starting a second shot, which we don't need.